- Listening to [[Code Dependant]]
	- Big companies main the data and produce profiles of users, which can be very accurate even if only metadata, or potentially unimportant, not-personal data is used. Travel routes, use times, use habits, shopping history and so on. We are the product of this economy.
	- [[Surveillance Capitalism]] - a term introduced by [[Shoshana Zuboff]] in her [[The Age of Surveillance Capitalism]] book. The economy and the practices enabled by the development of data collection and processing undermines our autonomy as individuals and erodes democracy.
	- The book is made of observations of individual characters encountered around the world. How is artificial intelligence changes what it means to be a human? The question is explored on an example of individuals from multiple cultures and walks of life and the way the data economy changed their lives.
	- In [[The Costs of Connection]] [[Nick Couldry]] and [[Ulises A Mejias]] introduce the concept of [[Data Colonialism]]. The land grab is the human lines converted into data streams where like in the previous colonialism. The inequalities of the past keep growing, and the datafication of life is nothing but continuous plunder.
	- [[Quote]]: The way in which algorithms have been introduced into society has caused an erosion of our individual feelings of autonomy, but also of diminishing of power and agency of those we trust as experts. Transfiguring our society. If individuals are aware of an algorithm making decisions that affect them, they're usually are locked out of systems working by institutions and companies. We are all stuck in an endless loop of "Computer says no".
	-