- Listening to [[Supremacy]]
	- Very early on there is a connection to [[Nineteen Eighty-Four]]. The science-fiction ideas like the versificator and the machine writing novels are now a reality. With that the risks with the AI have been "dowgraded" from it wiping the humanity out, at least not initially, but with us not being able to distinguish "real" and computer generated content and being increasingly exposed to AI boosted problems of human interactions.
	- The book will follow two careers that of [[Sam Altman]] and [[Demis Hassabis]].
	- The competition between them, and between their corporations is compared to that of [[Thomas Edison]] and [[Nikola Tesla]], and their "War of Currents". In both cases two geniuses battled to solve important word problems, both with noble motivations that were tested when exposed to the commercial pressures of the world.
	- The two stories at the centre of the book are "stories of creativity, but also of naivety and egos."
	- Altman's early career and experiences of founding Loom are described. It's yet another story of a [[Stanford]] dropout turn hacker-founder. The product eventually failed, but trough early engagement in the [[Y Combinator]] Altman made contacts (and money) which in the end led to him taking the Y Combinator over and being able to focus on the next big thing - the AI
	- Hassabis grew up in [[London]] and was focused mostly on games. Both playing them and developing on the early British computers, starting with [[ZX Spectrum]]. He played chess, winning a lot of competitions, until at the age of 14 he gave up as he came to a conclusion that using all the brain power to play chess is wasted effort. It would be better to solve world problems instead. But he kept his fascination with games and simulation of life which he tried to develop, unsuccessfully, through game development.