- Listening to [[The Anxious Generation]]
	- The book references a lot of relevant and very interesting research, showing clearly that the introduction of high speed internet, social media, and attention seeking features in smart phone apps had clear and often negative influence on child and adolescent development.
	- But there were other factors as well, especially in cultures dominated by the english language, and the introduction of the 24 hour news cycle. The perception of society has changed, and so has what is acceptable and what is not. Children used to be raised, in some sense, by adults in their surroundings as far as 1980s. It is shown on an example of New York, so large metropolitan community, not an rural one. The change then started with the 24 hour news cycle, where parents started fearing much more about their children. Eventually adults started fearing interacting with non-familiar children. A few big cases of clear abuses of trust have pushed it further. Children became much more supervised, when what they need to develop is unsupervised time to explore the boundaries of their confidence.
	- The author suggests that what is needed, and what children across the cultures naturally are drawn to, are activities which are mildly dangerous. Risk on mild, acute (not chronic) harm is necessary for development of people, and many other organisms. (Example of a self sustainable habitat experiment where trees unexposed to wind were breaking under their own weight). The children are "unfrigile", which makes them bounce back easily, and stronger. This is true both physical and psychological stress and recovery.
	- [Facebook papers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2021_Facebook_leak), a collection of internal Facebook documents leaked in 2021, shows clearly the intentional manipulation of adolescent brain vlunerabilities by the organisation. There are other interesting examples too.
	- The book has a [companion website](https://www.anxiousgeneration.com/research) with a regularly updated errata, notes and figures (so they can be seen if listening to the book).
	- The key points and the data analysis to [evidence](https://www.anxiousgeneration.com/research/the-evidence) the findings are available too.
	- The [collaborative review document](https://www.anxiousgeneration.com/research/collaborative-review-docs) contains links to many further articles.
	- The "Potato Study" is addressed when discussing the evidence of the negative impacts. It keeps coming up as evidence that there is as much evidence of social media influence on mental health as there is from eating potatoes. However, the same data shows significant correlation (which can be proven to be causation through other studies and natural experiments) when social media is extracted as its own category from wider media, and especially when looking at the effect it has at teenage girls.
	- However, most of the studies look at the individual effect of the social media, like for example sugar intake. But social media works on a group. If they are used in schools, the non-users are as, if not more, impacted as the users.
	- Girls use social media much more than the boys, who are naturally drawn to online games instead. This is caused by differences in how boys and girls weave themselves into societies, typically (agency and communion, respectively). For the same reason depression can spread among group of female friends, but there is no significant evidence that is spreads between male friends.
	- There are at least five reasons why the girls are more affected than the boys
		- Girls are more sensitive to visual comparisons. visual social media are most at play here. This is because the girls are more likely to develop socially prescribed perfectionism.
		- Girls aggression is often not physical as is the case in boys, but is expressed in harming other girls standing in a peer group. Social media is a good conduit for such aggression.
		- Groups of girls are more likely to share emotions. This includes anxiety and depression. Girls are more prone to sociogenic illnesses, ilnesses spread by social networks - example of fake Turrets syndrome.
		- "Internet made easier for men to approach and stalk girls and women and to behave badly towards them while avoiding accountability"
		- Social media is a trap louring people offering connection to others, the communion much more sought by the girls, but offering low quality interactions.
		-
	-