- Listening to [[Nineteen Eighty-Four]]
	- Part III. O'Brian's explanation of the purpose of power. "The object of power is power". Surprisingly it reminded me of political realism, and interviews I have seen with [[John Mearsheimer]]. The super powers strive to preserve their powers to maintain their status as super powers. The [[Covert Regime Change]] shows just the extent to which they will go, to retain that power.
	- I haven't planned on switching my reading focus to social or political topics, but perhaps I should read his [[The Strategy of Great Power Politics]]?
	- I don't remember if the appendix was part of the translation I read long time ago. It is very interesting from the linguistic point of view. I wonder how much Orwell knew about Esperanto and how it works, but to me the similarities, and more importantly part of the guiding principals behind the mechanics of the language are obvious.
- Listening to [[The Anxious Generation]]
	- Book recommended to me after discussing [[Cal Newport]]'s podcast episode 246 [Are Smartphones Bad for Kids](video https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7h7anorDy9A) about the data showing real impact of smart phones on children and adolescents.
	- The book is about Generation Z, people born after 1995 who were 15 or younger at the time when smart phones were becoming popular (firtst iPhone was in 2007), social media changed with the introduction of the like button (Facebook, 2009) and the first smart phone with a front facing camera (2010)