- Listening to [[The Anxious Generation]]
	- The early parts of the book were focused on the experience of and affects on girls. Now the focus shifts to boys and young men. The data for them doesn't show such a step change and is not as clearly associated with the social media. Still, the change is there, and it played out possible since 1970s to today, with a some increase around 2010.
	- The author explores the potential reasons for the difference between the genders, and looks for the answers by considering the different needs of young boys and girls both in terms of development, but also in how they typically fit into society. The safetism is pointed out as a potential contributing factor, as well as development of computer games from Pong to World of Worcraft.
	- However, like girls, boys got more depressed and anxious overall around 2010, a phenomenon that can be observed in multiple countries. But boys experienced slow decrease in achievement and engagement since the 1970s.
	- Boys appear to have been more affected by the restrictions of unsupervised play, and moved their activities to the virtual world.
	- Boys are at a greater risk of "failure to launch", they are much more likely to end up unemployed and not in education or training in their 20s. In Japan increasing number turn into [Hikikomori](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hikikomori), modern day hermits withdrawn from world. The concept first observed in Japan has parallels in other cultures.
	- Around 2010 patterns of mental health disorders in boys has shifted from externalised (e.g.: aggression) to internalising (e.g.: depression) and by that matching the patterns observed in girls. What is interesting, is that the gaming behaviour changed in 1990s and 2000s yet there is no evidence of this alone affecting the boys mental health. Yet something has happened around 2010. Part of the explanation may be linked to high-speed internet that made the games more realistic, and high quality pornography available, thus, making it possible to fulfil their desire without engaging with the "real world".
	- Video games can be beneficial and there is research to show that, however they can also negatively impact mental health, especially in case of the boys.
	- In sociology, [anomie](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anomie) is a concept that describes a state of normlessness or a breakdown in social norms within a society. The normlessness is common in modern types and it might be caused by the move from the real to the virtual world. Groups online lack stability, and so the norms are equally non-stable, or don't develop. Émile Durkheim who introduced the term in 1893 concluded in his work "Suicide: A Study in Sociology" concluded that anomie breeds despair and suicide.
	- Boys and girls have followed different paths through the "great rewiring of childhood" (from play based to phone based) ended up in the same place with the feeling that their lives are meaningless.