- Listening to [[Medic]]
	- Chapter 8
		- The previous chapter closed with the account of an army doctor who was kept prisoner of war in a Japanese camp on the outskirts of Nagasaki. He has seen the atomic bomb drop, the devastation of the camp, and later that closer to the explosion when he and other surviving prisoners were used to deal with the aftermath. The conclusion was, that in any future conflict medics in the army will not be of much use. After bombs like that, there is nothing a medic can do.
		- Perhaps because of that, as countries prepared for a new type of war, the field medicine appeared unnecessary, unimportant. British Army Medical Core were at the forefront of what's possible during the second word war, but they lost most of that edge, and accumulated experience over the next few decades. Medics lost their status, became a joke, literary in the M.A.S.H. sitcom.
		- The chapter quickly moves from the end of Second World War over Sues Canal, Korea and Vietnam are briefly mentioned, but as the British Army had no involvement there, they are mostly ignored. The next stories start in 1982 when Margaret Thatcher's government sent the army to Falklands. Medics unprepared. Soldiers unprepared as well. Over the last 30 years the training focused on other things, and first aid, or casualty evacuation was not practiced at all.
		- Doctors on board the ships started running sessions and teaching the soldiers improvised curriculum on combat first aid, including practices like rectal fluid administration - later proven to be of little use.
		- The paratroopers initially dismissing gradually came in higher and higher numbers to the sessions as the prospect of being involved in actual combat sunk in.
- Reading [[The Burnout Society]]
	- Burnout Society
		- References to the greet myth of Prometheus and [Kafka]([[Franz Kafka]])'s revision of it - also called [[Prometheus]]. [[Quote]]:The contemporary achievement-subject inflicting violence on, and waging war with, itself.
		- [[Quote]]: The psyche of today's achievement-subject differs from the psyche of the disciplinary subject. The ego, as [Freud]([[Sigmund Freud]]) defines it, is a well-known disciplinary subject. Freud's psychic apparatus is a represive apparatus with commandments and prohibitions that subjugate the repress. Like disciplinary society, the psychic apparatus sets up walls, thresholds, borders, and guards. For this reason, Freudian psychoanalysis is only possible in repressive societies that found their organization on the negativity of prohibitions and commandments. Contemporary society, however, is a society of achievement; increasingly, it is shedding the negativity of prohibitions and commandments and presenting itself as a society of freedom. The modal verb that determines achievement society is not the Freudian *Should*, but *Can*. This social transformation entails intrapsychic restructuring. The late-modern achievement-subject possesses an entirely *different psyche* than the obedience-subject for whom Freud conceived psychoanalysis. Freud's psychic apparatus is dominated by negation [Verneinung], repression, and fear of transgression. The ego is a "eat of anxiety" [Angststätte]. In contrast, the late-modern achievement-subject is poor in negation. It is a subject of affirmation. Where the unconscious necessarily connected to the negativity of negation and repression [Verdrängung], then the late-modern achievement-subject would no longer have an unconscious. It would be a post-Freudian ego. The Freudian unconscious is not a formation that exists outside of time. It is a product of the disciplinary society, dominated by the negativity of prohibitions and repression, that we have long since left behind.
		- [[Quote]]: The late-modern achievement-subject does not pursue works of duty. Its maxims are not obedience, law, and the fulfilment of obligation, but rather freedom, pleasure, and inclination. Above all, it expects the profits of enjoyment from work. It works for pleasure and does not act at the behest of the Other. Instead it hearkens mainly to itself. After all, it must be a self-starting entrepreneur [Unternehmer seiner selbst]. In this way, it rids itself of the negativity of the "commanding [gebietender] Other.} However, such freedom from the Other is not just emancipating and liberating. The dialectic of freedom means developing new constraints. Freedom from the Other switches into narcissistic self-relation, which occasions many of the psychic disturbances afflicting today's achievement-subject.
		- [[Quote]]: [Ehrenberg]([[Alain Ehrenberg]]) considers depression exclusively in terms of psychology and the pathology of the self. In so doing, he fails to consider economic context. Burnout, which often precedes depression, does not point to a sovereign individual who has come to lack the power to be the "master of himself". Rather, burnout represent the pathological consequence of *voluntary* self-exploitation. The imperative of expansion, transformation, and self-reinvention - of which depression is the flipside - presumes an array of products tied to identity. The more often one changes one's identity, the more production is dynamized. Industrial disciplinary society relied on unchanging identity, wheras postindustrial achievement society requires a flexible person to heighten production.
		- [[Quote]]: [Ehrenberg]([[Alain Ehrenberg]])'s main thesis reads: "the success of depression lies in the decline of conflict as a reference point" upon which the nineteenth-centurty notion of the self was founded. According to this view, conflict performs a constructive function; both personal identity and social identity are formed from elements that stand "in relationship because of their conflict"; in political and private life, conflict represents the normative core of democratic culture. Depression, Ehrenberg continues, conceals how relationships emerge from conflict; now conflict no longer founds personal identity.
		- Ksiażka przypomina mi [Masakracje młodego lewaka](https://www.groove.pl/janusz-korwinmikke/masakracja-mlodego-lewaka/piosenka/999609) w Młodzież Kontra 2010-03-28.[[Janusz Korwin Mikke]] został zapytany:
		  SZCZOTKOWSKI: Panie prezesie, bo tu pada takie pytanie, ponieważ mocno krytykuje pan rozwiązania społecznej gospodarki rynkowej. Tej zimy było takie badanie: W którym kraju Europy obywatele najmniej boją się o swoje finanse? Pierwsze miejsce - Norwegia, drugie miejsce - Szwecja, trzecie - Finlandia, tam...
		  KORWIN-MIKKE: A nie było Islandii przypadkiem?
		  SZCZOTKOWSKI: Nie, nie było Islandii.
		  KORWIN-MIKKE: Nie było Islandii - popatrz pan! No to może robiono po Islandii...
		  SZCZOTKOWSKI: No więc była, ale nie była w pierwszej trójce, panie prezesie! Jednak tam funkcjonuje, jak to pan nazywa, ten wredny socjalizm. Trzech na stu obywateli tylko boi się o swoje pieniążki - to chyba nie jest tak dużo, prawda? Może jednak idźmy tą drogą, a nie korwnizmami, które mają 0,2 poparcia w społeczeństwie, co jest tragedią jakąś okrutną...
		  KORWIN-MIKKE: Proszę pana, spośród dwóch armii, z których jedna wygrywa wojnę a druga siedzi w pieleszach, ci pierwsi bardziej boją się o swoje życie, ale oni zwyciężają. Bo widzi pan, celem życia, nie jest przeżycie.
		  SZCZOTKOWSKI: A co?
		  KORWIN-MIKKE: To ja przepraszam, nie będę zastępował pańskich nauczycieli. Ludzie mają swoje cele, mają swoje ambicje, mają swoje ideały i za to walczą i umierają, a pan chce tylko żyć! To niech pan sobie żre i żyje dalej...
		-
		-
		-
		-