- Re-reading [[Async in C# 5.0]]
	- Re-reading old books to clear the bookshelf. This one is from 2011, from the time when C# 5.0 was release and with it the `async`/`await` keywords.
	- But the book is interesting not only from the historic / archeologic perspective. The approaches to writing asynchronous code are explain, because it has been possible to write asynchronous code before the introduction of the new features of the language, it's just that it was much more verbose, more difficult.
	- The previous patter all involved callbacks, and could be called in general "Event-based Asynchronous Patter" (EAP).
	- The new keywords change more than just the way the code is compiled. The changes are visible in exception handling, in `try`, `catch`, `finally` blocks, returning values, thread and context management, and finally, in performance - there are overheads.
	- There are good examples of writing asynchronous code manually, and examples how the new language features make it easier in "Task-based Asynchronous Patter" (TAP).
	- There is a chapter about [agent style of programming](https://code.google.com/archive/p/n-act/) - something forgotten about completely.
	- Asynchronous code is often talked about as something that improves performance, but it is not necessary true. First of all, `async` methods are synchronous until the first `await`. But also there is also overhead of handling asynchrony, and there are elements which are difficult to predict related to waiting for CPU availability on a busy machine.