- Listening to [[Chip War]]
	- The transistors, initially, were very expensive to produce and very difficult to manufacture. There was no apparent market for them, until [[Fairchild]] company made production more reliable and marketed the invention to the army. Soon, their semiconductors were produced in increasing quantities and used in the Minuteman ballistic missiles, and in the guidance computers for the [[Apollo Programme]].
	- The [[Soviet Union]] and was just a few steps behind, with many noteworthy physicists. The early cold war student exchange programmes meant that some Russian students were studying at MIT, including under [[William Shockley]]. But the Soviet strategy was that from earlier days of copying through spy networks. Such approach couldn't work for a product that was being obsoleted so quickly. The physics wasn't necessarily the problem. The manufacturing, mass production, was. Eary chips had very high failure rate at manufacturing stages. When IBM achieved 20% of success rate it was considered a huge step forward. The Soviet Union had less access to advanced technology used in preparing the ingredients, and then manufacturing so they struggled to copy. Still, CIA thought they are just a year or two behind.
	- Another big difference was, that companies in the [[United States]], like [[Fairchild]], were trying to make sure their technology is not only available for military purposes. They have seen the civilian market as a much bigger opportunity. The science was relatively open, and more and more people were drawn to the new electronics industry. In the [[Soviet Union]] the industry was focused on the military, being very secretive, it lacked the draw that attracted the brightest of physicists and manufacturers.