- Listening to [[Civil Future]] How do we radically improve Britain's state capacity?
	- A panel discussion chaired by [[Munira Mirza]] between [[Lord Adonis]] and [[Dominic Cummings]]. July 2024.
	- [[Dominic Cummings]] says in the Q&A section of the meetings, that multiple systems are failing at the same time which is causing the overall system failure. We have huge problems with the Civil Service decline of talent. [[Quote]]: And you have another big social thing which you can see cross the Western World which is a shift in elite talent out of Public Service, and politics and government, towards things like tech, startups, VC, hedge funds, etc., which I think is extremely underrated. If you just look at the quality of the MPs now, and compare it to to the past, if you look at the sort of people that we have running things, running big projects, and you compare it to the sort of people like General Groves in 1940s running the Manhattan Project, to General Schriever running the ICBM project, to George Mueller running Apollo, there's just an incredibly huge collapse of talent in the public sector. The people like Groves, Mueller, etc., are now in the Valley building other things.
	- [[Dominic Cummings]] [[Quote]]: I have recently been looking at how the Whitehall organised itself to deal with the French Revolution in the 1790s, and it's very interesting comparing that with right now. If you read about the Whitehall in the 1790s it is weirdly much more modern that it is now. People see things and there's super able people immediately making decisions and immediately building things, and immediately executing in the real world. [[Elon Musk]] has far more in common with people like [Nelson]([[Horatio Nelson]]) and the systems and the systems around that in 1795 or 1800. If you fast forward and read a lot, some of the heroes in World War 2 for example, Alan Brooke, Harvey-Jones, you can already see the pernicious effect of the Northcote-Trevelyan reforms in the 1850s, a supposedly meritocratic system which actually faked meritocratic. The long-term consequence on the Northcote-Trevelyan is the system is running the people, the people are not running the system. And the system is running the system for itself. And that over decade, after decade, after decade becomes pathological. And that's what we've got now. We have pathological public institutions like the Cabinet Office which actually actually actively sabotage the national capabilities.
	- [[Lord Adonis]] suggests there should be requirement to include experts in shortlisted candidates. [[Dominic Cummings]] jokes that it should be added to the list of protected characteristics, and continues: [[Quote]]: When I wrote [that blog in January 2020]([[Two hands are a lot]]) about weirdos and misfits, one of the things that I put in there is this insane HR system whereby the whole system works on kind of diagonal zigzagging, so you have to go every two years, you have to zigzag to get a promotion or a pay rise. No one can actually get a promotion and a pay rise just by actually understanding what they're doing. [...] Everybody in the Whitehall knows that that system is insane. [...] Everyone knows objectively the two-year zigzag system is completely insane.