- Listening to [[Chip War]]
	- Taiwan plugged itself into the supply chains with a very strategic outlook, and a lot of government support, not only in direct funding, but also in convincing business to invest, too. They have seen becoming the key part in the chip manufacturing business allowed for economic growth, but also acted as a security guarantee. This was one of the reasons, why [[TSMC]] was set up not to compete with chip designers, but to focus on manufacturing capability.
	- China started development of chips relatively early, too. In the early [[1960s]], but the [[Mao Zedong]]'s [[Cultural Revolution]] stopped it in [[1966]]. China's technology has fallen behind with very little development for about a decade. Then the politics have changed after death of the leader in [[1976]] , and the China struggled to catch up with its neighbours already established in the field of chip manufacturing.
	- The field of chip manufacturing was very competitive, and the development of the technology was very quick. Miniaturisation of the transistors meant that more more accurate [[Lithography]] equipment was needed, driving prices of market entry. It was already seen at the end of the [[1980s]] but in [[1990s]] it lead to a number bankruptcies leading to the current situation, where the cutting age chip manufacturing if centralised in a handful of huge companies.
	- At the same time the process, and the business model started by [[TSMC]] on just manufacturing, meant that the entry costs to advanced technology in disciplines other than chip manufacturing kept coming down. Without it, it is difficult to imagine startups that led to companies like [[Nvidia]] or [[Qualcomm]] as in both cases their ideas were considered too out there to attract serious investment.
	-