- Re-reading [[Building a Scalable Data Warehouse with Data Vault 2.0]]
	- Comparison of common data warehouse architectures
		- Kimball - developed by [[Ralph Kimball]]. Focused on [[Dimensional Modelling]]. (published 1996)
		- Inmon - developed by [[Bill Inmon]] - the [[Enterprise Data Warehouse]]. (published in 1992)
		- Data Vault - developed by [[Dan Linstedt]] in 1990s, (published in 2000, 2.0 in 2013) as an alternative to Kimball and Inmon.
		- Interestingly, the [[Medallion Architecture]] is not discussed, as it was first published by [[Databricks]] in [[2016]], the same year the book was published.
	- Ultimately all three models covered have three layers (with the third one being optional in Kimball).
		- Landing -> Data Warehouse -> Data Marts or OLAP cubes in the case of Inmon and Kimball
		- Staging -> Data Vault -> Information Vault in the case of Data Vault.
	- The biggest difference is in the purpose of the first layer. Staging holds only the current batch data, or previous batches if they failed, while Landing, similarly to the Bronze layer in [[Medallion Architecture]] holds all of the historic data.
	- The book covers various [[Project Management Methodologies]] including [[Whaterfall]], [[Agile]] ([[Scrum]]) and [[Six Sigma]] to show how [[Data Vault]] can fit into it.
	- The three key entities in [[Data Vault]] modelling are
		- Hub - the group of IDs representing a single entity
		- Link - relationship between two or more Hubs
		- Satellite - additional information about hubs and links
	- All relationships in a [[Data Vault]] are many-to-many to avoid changes to schema as the domain changes. Generally, the focus of the methodology is on avoiding change to the schema.
- Listening to [[Chip War]]
	- The story of west vs. east battle continues. Japan started by copying American technology, but delivering it at a better quality. They also managed to get in a situation where the US was providing security for Japan which enabled Japan to invest in other sectors of the industry