- Reading [[The Burnout Society]]
	- Profound Boredom
		- The widespreading multitasking is not progress in human development. It is regressive. [[Quote]]: Multitasking is commonplace among wild animals. It is an attentive technique indispensible for survival in the wilderness.
		- Being comfortable with boredom is essential for contemplation. Contemplation is essential for profound and innovative thinking. Being busy can produce only more of what there is already.
		- This chapter reminds me about some of the practical recommendations from [[The Anxious Generation]] as well as [[Deep Work]].
	- Vita Activa
		- [Arendt]([[Hannah Arendt Bluecher]])'s focus on men being born as the source of endless possibilities is contrasted with [Heidegger]([[Martin Heidegger]])'s focus on the moment of death, that makes the freedom finite.
		- [Arendt]([[Hannah Arendt Bluecher]]) proposed concept of *animal laborans* - people who through focus on the daily chores. Lives of *animal laborans* are "submerged in the over-all life process of the species" and are simple biological processes devoid of any individualism.
		- [[Byung-Chul Han]] argues that it is not so. [[Quote]]: The late-modern *animal laborans* is equipped with ego just short of bursting. And it is anything but passive. If one abandoned one's individuality and dissolved into the life process of the species entirely, one would at least have the serenity [Gelassenheit] of an animal. But the late-modern *animal laborans* is anything but animalian. It is hyperactive and hyperneurotic. There must be another answer to why all human activities in late modernity are sinking to the level of mere laboring - and, more sstill, why such hectic nervousness prevails.
		- [[Quote]]: Belonging to a species might benefit an animal that works for the sake of its kind to achieve brute *Gelassenheit*. However, the late-modern ego [*Ich*] stands utterly alone. Even religions, as thanatotechnics that would remove the fear of death and produce a feeling of duration, have run their course. The general denarrativization of the world is reinforcing the feeling of fleetingness. It makes life bare. Work itself is a bare activity. The activity of bare laboring corresponds entirely to bare life.
		- [[Quote]]: Nietzsche already observed that, after the death of God, health rose to divine status. If the horizon of meaning extended beyond bare life, the cult of health would not be able to achieve this degree of absolutness.
		- *homo sacer* is a life absolutely expandable - like the lives of people in the concentration camps, Guantanamo, illegal immigrants, asylum seekers awaiting deportation, or uncoscious patients in critical care units. The individual doesn't matter, but the life itself needs to be saved.
		- The above shift in focus from an individual to life, is something I observe volunteering with healthcare professionals regularly. Perhaps this is what helps to move on over the suffering of an individual.
		- [Arendt]([[Hannah Arendt Bluecher]]), in her work *Human Condition* in 1958, with resignation concludes that "the ability to act is restricted to only a few". This, echoes far less philosophical writing from 1949 [[Nineteen Eighty-Four]] I recently re-read.
		- There is also a connection to the current war in Ukraine. The Russians are often shown as lacking regard for human life. They try to portray themselves internally as fighting for traditional values like religion and family. The shift from God to life as the most important value in the western countries is conflicted with a civilisation where the shift did not happen to the same degree.
		-
		-