- Listening to [[Code Dependent]]
	- Chapter 2 - Your Body
		- The chapter is focused on impact of deep fakes used to create pornographic images of just about anybody. There are services that can do it from online profile picture. And in most places it is not illegal, as the image is not real despite being hyper-realistic.
		- It is not new but the new technology has been adopted "by the army of perverts and cowards" as hidden cameras and photoshop before.
		- "Any time someone talks to me about their cyber stalking or online-harassment I say: No!" The cyber element is only the weapon of choice, the delivery method of the harassment, but the person on the receiving end is real, and so it is real harassment and real stalking, like any other.
	- Chapter 3 - Your Identity
		- The chapter moves to research and impact of facial recognition. The technology initially developed with hope of spotting illnesses has been adopted for law enforcement and state oppression around the world.
		- [[Quote]]: It's a complicated feeling as an engineer, as a scientist I want to build technology to do good, he told me. But as a human being, and as a black man, I know people are going to use technology inappropriately. I know my technology might be used against me in some manner or fashion.
		- "in the end of the day computers don't care". It is all about how people use technology, not about the technology itself.
		- The chapter moves from the US to London where the story of surveillance by the Argent LLP near the King Cross led to creation of the Dazzle Club (2019-2021).
		- 2020 - [[Ed Bridges]] - Welsh campaigner won against the South Wales police when the judge agreed that there were deficiencies in how use of facial recognition is governed, and that too much decision making was left to the police officers. It was the worlds first legal challenge of police use of facial recognition. Despite the judgement the police continued using the technology claiming that they are exempt due to their duty to protect the public.