- Listening to [[The Power of Geography]]
	- Chapter 1 - [[Australia]]
		- The geography of Australia shaped the country. Despite its huge size, there are very few people living there, and there isn't much hope for many more. The outback is not really habitable, and the central area is still not really well known.
		- Captain [[James Cook]] is often quoted as discoverer of [[Australia]] when he mapped the east cost in [[1770]] and claimed it for [[Great Britain]]. But [[Willem Janszoon]], a [[Dutch]] explorer was there in [[1606]] and called it [[New Holland]]. Of course, the it was inhabited for some 40,000 years before that.
		- In [[1848]] explorer [[Ludwig Leichhardt]] during his second expedition across expedition disappear with the whole party, people, animals, and still it is not clear what happened to him.
		- [[Australia]] is a country rich in natural resources, but with little space to inhabit. Because of small population, it might be difficult to defend militarily, but because of the vast and harsh terrain, and large distances over ocean, it is also difficult to attack.
		- In [[1788]] the penal colony in [[Botany Bay]] was started in [[1788]] with 11 ships bringing over a thousand settlers, mostly convicts.
	- Chapter 2 - [[Iran]]
		- [[Iran]] is similar to [[Australia]] in that it has settlements all around its borders with almost nothing in the middle. This geography, with a ring of mountains, also shaped the country, and its history.
		- [[Britain]] noticed the oil reserves in early [[1900]]s and secured monopoly on exploitation.
		- The history of Iranian revolutions is described.
	- Chapter 3 - [[Saudi Arabia]]
		- The story is interesting, mostly about development of various branches of [[Islam]] and how eventually the house of Saud and [[Wahhabism]], but the impact of geography is far less obvious when compared to previous chapters.
		- [[Muḥammad ibn Abd al-Wahhāb]] started his teachings around [[1740]].
	- Chapter 4 - [[Britain]]
		- Back to how geography defined countries - the story of Britain, from first people, ice ages, and to the modern times.
		- The British isles have clear east-west divide. Through history, the lowlands to the east where often attacked and conquered, and the hills and mountains to the west were not.
		- [[United Kingdom]] never was truly integrated with [[European Union]]. [[Charles de Gaulle]] was against accepting UK to EU as he didn't believe they could integrate, and at the same time that they would be a threat to French leadership in EU.
		- [[European Union]] was created in response to European experience of the [[Second World War]], which was very different to British one.
-