- Reading [[Advanced First Aid for Cave Rescue]]
	- Introductions and the Primary Survey
		- Review *surgical emphysema*
		- Review treatment of *flail chest*
		- There are six major chest injuries that rapidly cause death unless treat (**ATOM FC**)
			- **A**irway compromise
			- **T**ension Pneumothorax
			- **O**pen Pneumothorax
			- **M**assive Haemothorax
			- **F**lail chest (a.k.a. paradoxical breathing, incongruous chest movement)
			- **C**ardiac Tamponade
		- "Cardiac Tamponade or a Massive Haemothorax are impossible to treat underground and difficult to treat even in hospital. The casualty is likely to die quit e quickly."
		- Specific treatments for chest injuries (ATOF)
			- **A** Check airway and use appropriate airway management
			- **T** Treat tension pneumothorax - needle decompression
			- **O** deal with any open pneumothorax (sucking chest injuries)
			- **F** flail chest splinting
- Listening to [[Medic]]
	- Chapters 9, 10 and 11
		- The Battle of Goose Green - part of the Falklands campaign. The chapter continues the story of two doctors [[Stephen Hughes]] and [Rick Jolly]([[Richard Tadeusz Jolly]]). The chapter focuses on the initial landing and first battles.
		- [[Quote]]: As he took up his scalpel making snap decision and working fast, he felt a connection to a tradition of a field surgery going back to the Second World War, to Korea, and to Vietnam. In his gore stained apron, he could easily have been a below deck surgeon in Nelsons navy or a bone cutter in tent in a balaclava. 
		  [[Quote]]: Para legend has is that when Gray (Private David) was hit he shouted out "I've lost my fucking leg!". To which a cool replay came from one of his mate behind a near cossack of grass: "No, you haven't Chopsey. It's landed over here. In fact it was still attached to him at this stage, though not by much.
		- Every causulty that was brought to the field hospital in Ajax Bay survived, even very difficult cases. But that might be, because even more difficult and hopeless cases never made it that far, as there were problems with evacuation.
		- That day Jolly has seen 80 men brought to his field hospital, 47 operated under general anaesthetic and everybody survived. Stephen Hughes, who was at the front line with 2 Para, Hughes treated 34 paras plus dozens of Argentinians.
		- [[Quote]]: The next day, a tired looking [[Stephen Hughes]], his face grey with fatigue, flew into Ajax Bay for the funerals. He avoided Jolly's eyes, which surprised the navy surgeon. 
		  He knew and liked his 2 para counterpart and had heard nothing but praise for the MO from the casualties he has treated in the hospital. Jolly opened his mouth to speak but was silenced by an outburst from Hughes apologising absurdly, for not having done enough on Goose Green and for sending back so many casualties in back condition. Jolly interrupted this flow of desperate remorse. His colleague had nothing to blame himself for. Every one of the wounded paratroopers ferried from Goose Green to the hospital was alive, he explained.
		- [[Quote]]: He was learning what few soldiers realised. That medics are steeped in the horrors of war in a way that noone else can ever be. All the carnage comes funnelling through them. They cannot look the other way or be charging ahead and relieve their aggression and frustration in the next firefight with the enemy. Other soldiers may see a few mates wounded or be injured themselves. But only the medics see the whole picture - the nonstop pain and misery of war. They run their eye over the entire butcher's bill. And in Stephen Hughe's case, there would be eventually a high price to pay.
		- [[Quote]]: Men fighting decades later in Iraq and Afghanistan would benefit more then they would ever know from the taught lessons learned at Goose Green, Bluff Clove and Mount London.