- Listening to [[Medic]]
	- The chapters in the audiobook are not aligned to the book chapters.
	- Chapter 1
		- it is the introduction, the story of Sergeant Major Stockton, who was injured during the ambush in which the first British soldier died in combat in Afghanistan. Stockton's arm was torn off by an RPG, but he was saved by a battlefield medic, doctors, and thanks to a swift extraction. Soon after he was in hospital in Birmingham reunited with his family.
		- One interesting detail, St John Ambulance people were looking after him at the hostpial.
	- Chapter 2
		- With the story out of the way, the second chapter reflects on how the soldiers experience have changed over centuries. Julius Cesar had a physician accompany him to battle, so had William the Conqueror. Henry V had a team of surgeons in his Agincourt campaign. But they were all for the leaders, perhaps officers, not for the common soldiers.
		- Around the time of Napoleonic wars the soldiers got more care, but it was focused on preserving the armies fighting power more than on wounded soldiers needs.
		- The French were leading the progress in this field. [[Pierre-François Percy]] was [[Napoleon]]'s surgeon-in-chief during his campaigns in Germany and Poland. They had carriages designed to carry dressings for up to 1,000 soldiers to prevent unnecessary death and amputations, but also to promptly remove wounded soldiers from away from the fight.
		- Baron [[Dominique-Jean Larrey]] was another famous surgeon working in the [[Napoleon]]'s army, mostly in Egipt, but he served in all Napoleon's campaigns and fought in 60 battles. During retreat from Moscow he performed two hip amputations.
		- Both innovators, Percy and Larrey, were taking part in battles at the front lines.
		- Other armies were not interested in this sort of things. During Crimean war British army landed with medical supplies, but they were abandoned at the quay by the officers who considered them unimportant until much later.
- Reading [[The Burnout Society]]
	- The Bartleby Case
		- [Bartelby]([[Bartleby, the Scrivener: A Story of Wall Street]]) by [[Herman Melville]] is at the centre of this chapter. The key character from that short story is set as an example of earlier considerations about *animal laborans*. However, I have not read the story, and without it the whole chapter appears to be impossible to follow.
		-