- Listening to [[The Anxious Generation]]
	- Chapter 8
		- The author moves beyond social science and looks at the religion. Despite saying he is himself antheist, he examins old human traditions and what they potentially tell us how we have evolved. He quotes Blaisec Pascal who is supposed to have said that at the centre of each person's heart there is a good shaped hole. While the reasons for that are interpreted differently there is a clear need for the "divine", moments of awe, in human experience that has clear impact on our mental health.
		- People who see moral actions feel lifted up on an axis whcih we can call "divinity". Seeing repulsive actions we feel degraded, pulled down on the same axis.
		- Phone based life is generally pulling us down on that axis.
		- Emile Durkheim has shown that human beings move between two planes in their experiences:  profane and sacred. The profane is our day to day, individual experience. The sacred is the collective experience. The virtual reality is very individualistic and so it is firmely in the profane plane offering no sacred, collective experiences.
		- Meditation has shown to improve wellbeing. Mobile phones are the oposite in many ways
		- Many old traditions and religions recommend to be slow to anger and fast to forgive. Social media enourage the opposite, and expose us to strangers expressing their quick judgement on us.
	- Part 4 - Chapter 9
		- The final part of the book offers potential solutions to the problem.
		- It acknowledges also, that some of tech giants are already taking steps towards it - pointing at Google's Ethicist work from 2013-2015, and the fact that it is relatively easy to enable parental controls on some of the mobile systems.
		- Butt it is all opt in system. It would be more beneficial if it was opt out because most parents still don't know how to opt in.
		- Examples of states criminalising unsupervised play, something that was completely normal up to 1990s.
		- Laws should be updated taking into account child's brain development.
		- Design and zone public spaces with children in mind.
		- Part time closed streets to reduce traffic, polution and increase play-time.
		- It was feared that digital divide caused by material affluence differences would impact education and further the divide because children from more affluent houses will have devices the others will not. But it turns out that the problems might be different. All children have the devices, but those in single parent households, or with less educated parents are more likely to have fewer limits on use of the devices and social media, and thus the divide in the academic achievement widens.
		- The "let go" project teacher asking students to agree with parents and do something on their own, that they haven't done before. Going to park, shopping, walking a dog. One year a school has run 20 such projects over the year. It changes childrens' confidence, but also parents change how they see the children and what they can let them do.
		- Check: Swansan example - Australian school taking part in an experiment. Some schools were asked to reduce the rules they had during the recess. One school removed all of the rules. They found the number of injuries have reduced. Children were able to better look after themselves when they knew they are reponsible for them, than when the adults were in charge.
		-
	-
	-