- Started listening to [[Chip War]]
	- The introduction talks about modern history of world conflicts. The [[Second World War]], the [[Cold War]] and now the [[Chip War]]. All three have in common the fact that they were mostly the wars of manufacturing. While at the core of the success were specific scientific inventions, new weapons, new capabilities, but ultimately the first two of these wars were won by the countries that could produce more of that technology faster, and maintain that production over prolonged periods of times. It is likely that that ability of manufacturing goods will decide the current Chip War, too.
	- From the first [[Integrated Circuit]] which was developed at the [[Bell Labs]], the number of transistors followed the [[Moore's Law]]. [[Gordon Moore]] predicted in his 1965 paper, that the number of MOSFET transistor on a chip will double each year for the next 10 years. In fact, the law held true for the next 50 years at least leading to chips with 2.6 trillion transistors in 2022. This lead to technical revolution where most of the devices we use nowadays depend on transistors.
	- The cutting edge transistors can be mass produced almost exclusively in one factor in Taiwan, at [[TSMC]].
	- The [[CoVID-19]] pandemic disrupted the supply chain and made it painfully obvious how many of our day to day items and our ability to get them when we need them, depend on that one part of the world, and that part of the technology.
	- American trade sanctions on China disrupted Chinese manufacturing capability from [[2022]] led to China putting a lot of their resources in making themselves independent from the west in their ability to manufacture silicon chips.
	- [[William Shockley]] theorised a semiconductor in 1925, but was not able to use the equipment available to him even in 1940s to prove it worked. This was done in 1947 by [[John Bardeen]] and [[Walter Brattain]]. All three worked for the [[Bell Labs]].
- I noticed three interesting books on a bookshelf in an office today
	- LATER [[Radical Collaboration]] by [[James W. Tamm]] and [[Ronald J. Luyet]]
	- LATER [[The Silo Effect]] by [[Gillian Tett]]
	- LATER  [[Multiplied]] by [[Ben Holliday]]