- Reading [[The Burnout Society]]
	- The twentieth century was the time of faculties, of clearly defined roles guided by establishments: hospitals, madhouses, prisons, barracks, factories. It was a "disciplinary-society" full of "obedience-subjects".
	- The twenty-first century is an "achievement-society" with "achievement-subjects". Everybody is an entrepreneur of themselves.
	- [[Quote]] Prohibitions, commandments, and the law are replaced by projects, initiatives and motivation. Disciplinary society is still governed by _no_. It's negativity produces madmen and criminals. In contrast, achievement society creates depressives and losers.
	- [[Quote]] Depression began its ascent when the disciplinary model of behaviour, the rules of authority and observance of taboos that gave social classes as well as both sexes a specific destiny, broke against norms that invited us to take personal initiative by enjoining us to be ourselves... The depressed individual is unable to measure up; he is tired of having to become himself. (from The Weariness of the Self: Diagnosing the History of Depression in the Contemporary Age by Alain Ehrenberg)
	- [[Quote]] The achievement-subject stands free from any external instance of domination [Herrschaftinstanz] forcing it to work, much less exploiting it. [...] However, the disappearance of dominanation does not entail freedom. Instead it makes freedom and constraint coincide. Thus, the achievement-subject gives itself overt to _compulsive freedom_ - that is, to the _free constraint_ of maximising achievement. Excess work and performance escalate into auto-exploitation.
-