- Listening to [[How They Broke Britain]]
	- Introduction
		- The book is a description of economic catastrophe Britain brought on itself, or rather the key public figures brought on the country.
		- [[Quote]]: What was once unthinkable has become almost unremarkable.
		- In March [[2023]] the [[OECD]] published analysis on G20 economies performance listing the [[UK]] as 19th out of 20. Only the heavily sanctioned [[Russia]] performed worse. Not by much, and similar analysis by [[IMF]] around the same time had Russia perform better then the UK. This is shown as an example of how badly the things became in Britain, and how their elites blame poor performance on any UK narrative of international organisations.
	- Chapter 1 - Rupert Murdoch
		- The chapter is describing how [[Rupert Murdoch]]'s empire, the [[New International]] influenced the politics in the [[UK]] and the [[US]]. The [[Phone Hacking Scandal]] is covered among many other stories.
		- [[Gordon Brown]] coined the phrase [[Criminal-Media Nexus]] in his speech in Parliament in [[2011]] accusing [[News International]] of "law-breaking on an industrial scale".
		- The media twisted the idea of a balanced opinion by pitting against each other two sides in a debate, but not for an against, but rather an expert and ignorant on whatever hot topic was discussed.
		- [[Quote]]: And it is why [Murdoch]([[Rupert Murdoch]]) and [[Daily Mail]] journalism routinely spawns social media barbecue of any vaguely prominent critic of that [[Criminal-Media Nexus]] who demonstrates fallibility.
		- [[Rupert Murdoch]] bought [[News of the World]] in [[1968]] and [[The Sun]] in [[1969]] starting a slow decline of British journalism.
	- Chapter 2 - Paul Dacre
		- The chapter is dedicated to [[Paul Michael Dacre]], a long-service editor of the [[Daily Mail]].
		- In [[2017]] [[Wikipedia]] banned [[Daily Mail]] as a trusted source on its pages describing it a generally unreliable. [[Jimmy Wales]] said in an interview that they mastered the art of [[Click Bate]] and running stories which are not true.