- Listening to [[Bullshit Jobs: A Theory]]
	- A number of reader stories are brought in. In one a new graduate got a job only because he had no required skills to do it well. It was ether a sabotage, or a sort of practical joke played between business partners to sabotage one idea. The person tried to quit number of times, always getting a pay raise ending staying. He started travelling all over the UK to fictitious meetings, turning to work drunk, hoping to be dismissed, but nothing worked.
	- An interesting connection appears between this book, and the view of how work used to look in the [[Middle Ages]] in [[Europe]] and how the introduction to [[Pamietniki]] describes the usual work in [[Baroque]] in [[Poland]]. The work was much more ebbing and flowing, more like the work described in [[Slow Productivity]]. There were some intensive days, but there were long stretches of time, months sometimes, filled only with small projects. At the same time the nobels did not do the work, but instead engage in armed conflicts of various scales. [[David Graeber]]suggests it is due to the available time and resources, while [[Wladyslaw Czaplinski]] in the introduction to [[Pamietniki]] suggests that it was more a result of the social fabric, the nobles in Poland have seen it as their duty, their role in society to fight the same as peasants had to work the fields and city dwellers had to trade.
	- The idea of buying time was unthinkable in the [[Ancient]] time, Ancient Greeks couldn't comprehend that somebody can sell their time as this would be same as selling oneself into a slavery for short periods of time. It was perfectly fine to own people, buy them as much as it was normal to buy fruits of human work, but buying their time (employed work) was not a thing. It was like that until modern times. What changed it was development of clocks, first those in cities, on towers funded by mostly by merchants, then in factories, and eventually in individual homes on on each person. That technical development allowed as to talk about the time as if it was real, something we can earn, spend, waste.
	- Greeks used to perform public services for money, but they didn't see it as work, as they were paid by the society they were part of, so they were working for themselves, the same as a potter would. In this sense, perhaps the [[Civil Service]] work is such self employed work rather than modern day 9-5 slavery?
	- The school system prepares mostly factory workers training obedience, and timeliness, the opposite how people normally work.
	- Working for a salary leads to perversion where being efficient is often rewarded by being assigned meaningless, bullshit tasks, so the incentive is to be inefficient in doing the meaningful parts of the job.
	- Most people naturally need to do something which contributes to the society. A number of examples are given. In penitentiary system banning inmates from work, like cleaning, laundry, is seen as punishment even though the work is often not paid, or paid very little. People kept in isolation for prolonged times become mentally and physically diminished, possibly through the lack of contributions. An example is given of a carer to a 90+ year New Yorker, who had a carer employed in case she has fallen. But most of the time she was just sat there, doing nothing. The situation was uncomfortable for both sides. The carer eventually quit claiming she lost weight and got gray hair through the stress of not doing anything despite being paid well.
	- Bullshit jobs are [[Quote]]: "a direct assault on everything that makes us human".
- Reading [[Pamietniki]]
	- Finished all the introductions and forwards, starting the actual diaries