- Listening to [[Bullshit Jobs: A Theory]]
	- Chapter 4
		- A job in which the only challenge is that you don't have any challenges, is a misery. It is dehumanizing.
		- [[Scriptlessness]] - a term from psychology describing situation where individuals face situation not commonly described in culture.
		- We all want to have some impact on the world around us, and nowadays we primarily see it as doing so through work.
		- There is no right to meaningful employment. The article 23 of the [[Human Rights Act]] describes individuals right to work, equal pay and such, but fails to mention anything about purposefulness and meaning of the work itself.
	- Chapter 5
		- Often the descriptions of bullshit jobs are dismissed as simply lack of wider context. [[Capitalism]] does't allow, at least from the economic theory perspective, for waste. It is the [[Communist]] and totalitarian systems that are known for creating jobs for everybody, to ensure there is no unemployment. But the system we live in is not purely economic. It is social as well, and people tend to develop their little empires, but surrounding themselves with their followers, minions and serves.
		- Another common critique of this theory is, that the jobs evolve to support the complex economic supply chains necessary for modern wealth generation in the developed countries. But this argument is also dismantled by the author in this chapter.
		- [[Barack Obama]] in one of his speeches when talking about [[Affordable Care Act]] is supposed to have said that making the act provisions public would lead to job losses and so it remains mostly private. This can be seen as highest endorsement of political value of bullshit jobs. (I was not able to find the original speech, but I was not able to find it without a specific reference - it might be in the print edition).
- Reading [[Pamietniki]]
	- 1659 - przygody w Danii. Bitwa na morzu ze wzmiankami o tym jak Dunczycy chowali cenne rzeczy w morzu, i jak dobrze nurkowali, bedac w stanie z duzych glebokosci wylawiac rzeczy ze statkow zatopionych w czasie bitwy.