- Listening [[Bullshit Jobs: A Theory]]
	- Chapter 6
		- [[Adam Smith]] studied [[Moral Philosophy]], which has its roots in [[Theology]] and so it could be said that [[Economics]] and [[Capitalism]] have roots in [[Theology]] and [[Philosophy]].
		- In [[English]] there is a linguistically subtle, but economically rather obvious difference between _value_ and _values_. Value is countable, it is economic in nature. Values are things we cannot quantify like _family values_, _work_ethics_ and so on. We care about the values, but the fact we cannot easily quantify the value of values might contribute to the fact, that workers in employment that requires strong _values_ are far less paid than those who work in the business of _value_.
		- In fact, the pay might bee seen as inverse, and there are some studies trying to show it. The more useful the job is to society, the more it is focused on _values_ the less paid it is.
		- It is perhaps seen as unethical to pay somebody for what they enjoy, and instead individuals should be compensated for doing things they don't want doing. Maybe this explains why bullshit job, like a hedge fund manager, pay so much, while nurses are paid so little.
		- [[Open Source]] is explicitly mentioned. Corporation benefit from work we do for free, the enjoyable and meaningful work of creating new things, while pay us for bullshit jobs of the duck-taping kind to just patch the open source products together.
		- Job creation is very often discussed as a value in itself, regardless if the jobs created bring any value.
- Reading [[Pamietniki]]
	- 1660 - historia przenosi sie w okolice siedlec w walce z Moskalami. Trzy pojedynki jednego dnia w obozie choragwi, a w okolicy tego dnia ponoc pietnascie.