- Reading [[Data Engineering with Databricks Cookbook]]
	- Examples of [[DevOps]] and [[DataOps]] including how to connect [[GitHub]] repositories to [[Databricks]]
- Listening to [[Code Dependant]]
	- Chapter 10 - Your society
		- [[Artificial Intelligence]] and [[ChatGPT]] . The development of [[Transformers]] and especially the Generative, Pre-trained Transformers, took over public imagination.
		- Publication of [[Attention is all you need]] in [[2017]] is mentioned as a pivotal point. The title, according to one of the authors, [[Llion Jones]], is a nod to [[Beatles]] song "All You Need is Love". Llion is from [[Wales]]
		- [[Chat GPT]] reached 1,000,000 users within 3 days of launch. This was the estimated maximum before the launch. After a few weeks there were 10s of million of users, and over 100 millions after six months. It was the biggest social experiment in the history.
		- In [[2023]] a district court in [[Manhattan]] fined [[Steven Schwartz]], a lawyer, who submitted a court filing citing 6 made up claims relating to aviation incidents. The submission was prepared by [[ChatGPT]] which suffered from [[AI Hallucinations]].
		- [[Quote]]: The scraping of the most precious part of our humanity, our creativity, in order to build replacements for the very people revered for it 
		  was an ultimate form of [[Data Colonialism]]. As artist [[James Bridle]] said: They enclosed our imaginations in much the same manner as landlords and robber barons enclosed once common land. Instead they are selling us back our dreams repackaged as products of machines.
		- [[Quote]]: And then there are concerns about the future of our species. How will children learn leaning heavily on these tools? Can they think properly without learning to write well? And ultimately, who the hell are we if all our ideas and thoughts can be replicated by machines? The people who are supposed to have answers to burning questions such as these: scientists, technologies, philosophers, economist, even politicians, don't seem to have any, and are just as conflicted and concerned as the rest of us. Meanwhile [[Generative AI]] is catching on like wild fire, racing on through the economy
		- A story also printed in a [[Financial Times]] article [[Sci-fi writer Ted Chiang: The machines we have now are not conscious]] by [[Madhumita M Muriga]] about [[Ted Chiang]] about an exchange on [[Twitter]]: What is [[Artificial Intelligence]]? A poor choice of words in [[1954]]. In reality, says Ted, it's just applied statistics.
		- [[Bullshit Jobs]] by [[David Graeber]] is mentioned. The fact that [[Generative AI]] can do so much of our jobs is not a reflection on how useful it is, but rather how much of our jobs are tasks he calls bullshit.
		- [[ChatGPT is a Blury JPEG of the Web]] by [[David Graeber]]
	- LATER [[Bullshit Jobs]] and [[ChatGPT is a Blury JPEG of the Web]]
	- The concerns about technology affecting our ability to learn is not new. [[Socrates]] worried about it, and so did [[Plato]] who in [[Phaedrus]] written [[Quote]]: And so it is that you by reason of your tender regard for the writing that is your offspring have declared the very opposite of its true effect. If men learn this, it will implant forgetfulness in their souls. They will cease to exercise memory because they rely on that which is written, calling things to remembrance no longer from within themselves, but by means of external marks.
	  What you have discovered is a recipe not for memory, but for reminder. And it is no true wisdom that you offer your disciples, but only the semblance of wisdom, for by telling them of many things without teaching them you will make them seem to know much while for the most part they know nothing. And as men filled not with wisdom but with the conceit of wisdom they will be a burden to their fellows.